INSTALLERS

Mock up for a web-based scheduling system for a fictional installation company.

As opposed to the other projects in this course, this project contains several key differences in areas such as user models and views. One of these main differences is that there are multiple types of users. Both user types (installer and customer) have different permissions, and view/access the same routes/pages in different ways. Another type of user is the superuser or admin, which can update/edit appointments as well as give other users permissions. Another key area which differentiates this project is the way certain functions are used such as "monthrange()", which helps to find out how many days are in a month. Also there is a function which in short allows the web app to always know what month it is, and return that data to the user. It does this by referencing an array of months and converting a integer to a string and using that value in monthrange() function.

This project also makes use of media queries, which none of the other projects did. Additionally, on the front end, the project makes use of pop-ups or modals, as well as redirects to enhance the user experience. The calendar which is used to schedule appointments is interactive as well, and makes use of template for loops to display the correct number for each respective day. This calendar also automatically updates to the correct month.

Users or "customers" are able to create accounts, log in and schedule an installation date from a calendar. Users can also cancel existing appointments as well as see the name of the installer they've been assigned for future appointments. Calendar automatically updates based on the month, every time a user views the schedule route. Superusers can change user permissions to "installer". Users classified as installers, would theoretically be assigned to employees of the fictional company, and logging in would allow them to see any upcoming projects they've been assigned to, as well as any extra details. Installers CANNOT schedule appointments.
